Transforming data is of course something we could also do here inside of subscribe and that would generally
not be a problem but it is a good practice to use observable operators because it simply allows us to
write cleaner code with different steps
we funnel our data through that can easily be swapped or adjusted, so that you have a lean subscribe
function here and have other steps that focus on other parts. Therefore
here before we subscribe, we can now call pipe because pipe as you learned is a method that allows you
to funnel your observable data through multiple operators before they reach the subscribe method.
Now the operator I need here is the map operator and therefore, I will import map from
rxjs/operators.
The map operator allows us to get some data and return new data which is then automatically re-wrapped
into an observable so that we can still subscribe to it,
if it would not be wrapped into an observable again, we could not subscribe.
So let's map here and
let's add map as an argument to pipe and map is a function which we call and that function now again takes
another function as an input, a function which will get our response data and that should now return
the converted response data
and here the idea is that we return an array of posts instead of an object with that cryptic key which
then holds our actual post. Now to convert a Javascript object which we have here to an array,
we have to manually loop through all the keys and create a new array.
So here, I'll create a new post array constant which is empty initially and then I'll use a for/in loop
to go through all my keys in response data, which I know will be an object and then I want to push each
piece of data into my posts array.
So here, I will then use posts array and push response data key, so I'm accessing the key we're currently
looking at in response data and therefore I'm accessing the nested Javascript object and i'm pushing
that nested Javascript object into my posts array. However I don't just want to push that object like
this in there,
instead I want to push a new object in there,
so let me add curly braces and let's use the spread operator now.
This will pull out all the key-value pairs of that nested object we're accessing here and let's close
this with curly braces too because this now allows me to also add one new key-value pair to that object
we're adding to posts array and that should be an ID field which actually stores the key because
that key here, that cryptic string is a perfect ID and it is a unique ID generated by Firebase.
Therefore of course, I want to keep that so that we have this, for example if you wanted to delete a single
post or anything like that.
So now we're pushing this new object into our posts array here,
now it is a good practice to wrap this with an if statement if you're using a for/in loop where you
check if response data has key as its own property so that you're not trying to access the property
of some prototype
and with that, post here now really is an array of posts
and now we only need to make sure that we return posts array here in map, so that this is now forwarded
to our subscribe function. With that
if that now reloads, indeed here, we see we have an array, we have square brackets and in there we have
an element which has a content,
the ID we added and the title and this is how we use observable operators to transform our data.